@document.meta
  title: fastvim manual
	description: FastVim User Manual
	author: Bruno Ciccarino
	categories: fast vim manual
  created: 2024-12-14
	version: 0.4
@end

= TOC Table of Contents

* Table of Contents
  -> {# Introduction}
  -> {# Configuring fastvim}
  --> {# Modules}
  -> {# Features}

* Introduction 

  Welcome to Fastvim, the next-gen galactic ☄️ Neovim distro that’s fast, modern, and fully configurable. Built for both lazy people who don’t want to mess around with endless configurations, and for the martian 👽 Neovim hackers who want full control over their setup. Whether you just want things to work right out of the box or you love tweaking every little detail, Fastvim is here to help.

  This distro has everything you need for a smooth and efficient workflow, and if you’re feeling adventurous, you can dive in and make it your own. With custom themes 🎨 made just for you, if you like having themes for every phase and mood you’re going through, just like me.

  Get ready to experience a Neovim setup that just works, without all the hassle. Let’s get you set up, fast and easy!

* Configuring Fastvim
  
FastVim has two interesting configurable features: seamless theme switching and the File Starter module. Both are simple to configure and give you control over the behavior of your editor. Let’s explore both options!

Configuration directory
FastVim uses a dedicated directory for configurations, and its location depends on your operating system:

  - Linux: `~/.fast.d/`
  - Windows: `%AppData%\\.fast.d\\` (this points to the Roaming directory).
Make sure this directory exists before proceeding.

Configuring theme switching
Customize the look of your editor by easily switching themes.

Open your operating system’s configuration directory.
Inside .fast.d, make sure there is an init.lua file (create it if necessary).

Add this line to set your desired theme:

@code lua
vim.g.define_colorscheme("themename")
@end

Replace "themename" with your desired theme, such as "gruvbox":

@code lua
vim.g.define_colorscheme("gruvbox")
@end

Managing the File Starter module:
The File Starter module is disabled by default, automatically creating Java class files. If performance is your priority, you can enable it.

In the same init.lua file, add the following line to enable the module:
@code lua
vim.g.auto_create_java_class = true
@end

The FastVim loader will automatically parse the init.lua file in your configuration directory and apply all the settings during Neovim startup. No extra steps are necessary — just set your preferences and they will take effect.

Why configure these features?
Theme Switcher: Customize your editor with styles that match your taste, whether vibrant or minimalist.
File starter: Saves you time by automatically creating a class when opening an empty Java file.

This setup ensures flexibility while maintaining simplicity in configuration.
